Hi guys.
So we have our Aurora database running and we created an Aurora replica within the same region in the last
lab.
And what we're going to do in this lab is we're going to create a cross region replica with aurora
.
Well so as you'll remember we have the cross region replica.
You can create up to five copies of your database so you can create five cross region replicas.
And that's one per each of these regions.
So in this case we have three or we have two replicas and one primary region and the reads are taking
place only in the primary region and then asynchronous replication is replicating the data across
to these different regions.
Now we actually do have a cluster in each of these regions because when you use this method it creates
a cluster and it uses the MySQL bin log replication to replicate the data across.
So we have multiple copies of our data in each of these regions but we can only serve read traffic but
we can if we want to failover regions.
So there is some disaster recovery options here let's head back into the console and set this up
back in the console and just to point out quickly the read only DB from the last lab now has its end
point so we can say that it has a different endpoint to the primary database and everything's looking
good, everything's available.
Just a quick warning if you haven't watched the previous lab I did mention there that with Aurora you
don't actually get any three tier so whatever we create in Aurora is going to cost something so it's
up to you whether you want to spend some money or just watch along before we can actually get started
creating our cross region read replica.
We need to enable binary logging and we do this through parameter groups.
Now I've already set mine up but I'm gonna show you how to do it now by default.
You'll be at your cluster we'll use the default Aurora.
That five point six D.B. cluster parameter group.
And if you go into here and search for bin log
you'll find this bin log format here and you'll see that it's set off.
Now what we need to do is create a new parameter group with that set to mixed and the way we do that
is you just come back to parameter groups and choose create parameter group.
We're going to set D.B. cluster parameter group and then give it a name and a description.
And once it's created, I've created my own mine called Cross region D.B. Once it's created you then
just need to go in and you can find that bin log it's just format and then you can go in and you select
edit parameters and just change it from off to mixed and click save.
Now once you've done that you can then come back to your databases and you need to go to your writer
and you need to go to modify
and you've got to scroll down until you find DB cluster parameter group and yours will be set to default
Aurora and you just change it to your new DB parameter group and then when you click on Save
don't forget to Choose the option that says apply now and you'll then need to wait a few minutes until
that update is completed and you might need to reboot your instance.
If so just choose your database here and then go to reboot.
So mine's already set up.
So what I'm going to do is go to choose my cluster here and then I'm going to go to create cross region
read replica
and I can choose my region.
I'm just gonna leave it as U.S. East North Virginia.
I'm going to leave these other options.
Encryption is greyed out because our source is encrypted so you can't change the status and I can choose
my instance class I'm going to leave it on the smallest one I can and then you'll see that by default
it says multi AZ deploymentspecifies if the DB instance should have a standby deployed in another
AZ so if I leave this enabled it's going to create a Aurora replica in another availability zone within
that region within the U.S. East North Virginia.
So I'm going to leave that and I'm just going to call this cross region D.B..
Copy that paste it into my identifier and leave the other options as defaults.
I need to disable performance inside.
She need to do this it won't work with the performance insights enabled and then click Create you'll
now get this screen which just tells you that your read rapid creation has been initiated and it's got
a little click here button and you can click that and I'll just take you to that region.
So this will take me over to U.S. East North Virginia
and we can see now that we have our regional role.
This is our database.
So it's a different database name.
And then we've got to readers.
So that's giving us an extra read.
So we've got a better fault tolerance as well by having those two readers and different availability
zones so we can see ones in U.S. East 1B and the other ones in USD 1D.
It's gonna take several minutes for these to become available but once they're available I'm going to
show you how to then promote one of these to a primary so that we can actually create a writable database
in US North Virginia. So I left that for half an hour or so and everything is available now.
We can see that we have our two instances now you'll see that one of them says writer and the other
reader.
Now this is a cross region readable database.
However of course one of them actually needs to write that data to the database that it receives through
replication traffic.
So that's why that one is showing as a writer.
Now what we want to do is if we click up at the cluster level here we can go to actions and we can choose
promote and this will as it says promote this read replica to a primary instance and replication will
start once the promotion process begins.
Do you want to continue.
So I click promote read replica.
It's going to break for application and it's going to turn this instance into a primary writable
database
and we can now see that our status is modifying.
So we're just going to wait a few minutes for that to complete and become available again.
So that took a few minutes and now we can see that our database is available again.
Everything is green and what's happened is this has now become its own database.
So it's a completely separate.
It's not being replicated to from the Sydney region anymore.
And if we actually go into the configuration we can see that we have an option here under actions to
create a cross region read replica.
So you'd only be had to do that if this was actually a viable database.
So that's all we want to do in this lab and what we want to do now is delete the cluster.
But before we can do that we actually have to go into each of these and let's delete the read only database
first
and we just need to type in delete me, copy this, because I'm going to need it a few times
and then we can go to the actual database itself the right of the database.
I'm not going to create a final snapshot.
I'll acknowledge that I'm going to delete all data and click delete me
so those might take a few minutes to delete and once they're deleted we'll be able to actually go in
and delete the cluster configuration as well.
And while that's happening I'm going to do the same thing in Sydney
for the reader and the writer
and again those are going to need a few minutes to fully delete but make sure you delete these guys
because these are going to cost you money.
So just make sure that you delete and if you've done this in multiple regions make sure you go to each
of those regions and make sure you've got everything deleted.
So that's it for this lab in the next hour we're going to go over global database.